Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving.
Meanwhile praying also for us that God would open to us a door for the Word to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am also in chains.
That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside
Redeeming the time.
Let your speech always be with grace.
Season with salt that thou that you may know how you ought to answer each one.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Amen.
May God add his blessing to the reunion of his word.
You may be seated.
Now, today we're going to be in a lot of different portions of the Bible, but it's a really good overview of what God taught me a few weeks ago.
And I think once you hear what He showed me, I think you'll remember this every time you have communion.
There's a passage in the New Testament I want to share with you that Jesus shares
and he has a couple parables and it's a very short passage but it's Matthew 9 verses 14 through 17 now I've heard this passage most of my life but I didn't really understand it and I kept asking God to explain it and he wouldn't until he did it and I want to read this passage for you it starts off the disciples of John came to him that's Jesus saying
Why do we and the Pharisees fast often but your disciples do not fast?
And Jesus said to them, Can the friends of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them?
But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them and then they will fast.
No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment
where the patch pulls away from the garment and the tear is made worse.
Nor do they put new wine into old wineskins.
Or else the wineskins break.
The wine is spilled and the wineskins are ruined.
But they put new wine into new wineskins and both are preserved.
Now that passage is the one that for many years I understood and kind of
Practicality, but I didn't understand it in application how it affected me in my life or anything like that.
And so as I began to try to understand it, I would try to figure out how to make sense of it.
For example, the unshrunk patch and the wine skin with the wine that confused me because I didn't know what a wine skin was or what, how you even did that process or why an old wine skin would break if you blew a new one.
I just didn't know.
And so, over time, even though I learned a little bit more about that, I still didn't understand what I had to do with me.
I have a better handle on it now.
You see, if we have a hole in a cotton shirt, we need to patch it.
And if we patch it, without backing a day anyway, I don't know if they still make them, we had these things called iron-on patches.
Y'all remember those?
I had tuscan jeans from Sears.
My mom always bought me.
They were supposed to not rip in the knees.
Invariably, I always had holes in the knees of my jeans when I was a kid.
And my mom would take those iron on patches and iron them on on both knees and they looked worse than when they started.
They looked horrible.
As a matter of fact, nowadays, they'd say, that's in style.
You need more holes to be in style.
And then they call them designer jeans and all these holes all over the place.
And I'm thinking, I got those designer jeans made just by crawling around on the ground.
And you didn't have to pay extra for that holes, you know.
Less material, more cost.
I never understood that.
That's just how the styles work.
But the reason I mention that is because, well, first off, after you weren't that cash well guys and ladies, you might remember this, they started to peel.
You remember that?
Those things didn't stay on.
Maybe it was the way my mom ironed them or they just didn't make the adhesive right.
But after why you got these floppy patches on your knees.
And when I would see that, I'd say this is stupid.
It looks worse than I pull a patch off, which made the hole bigger because some of the patch was still sticking to the material and it would take it off.
Then it had these little strings on there and I go, I got to take those off and I pull those little strings.
Pretty soon this little hole was that big in both of my knees.
My mom would say, I can't buy you pants for nothing.
All you do is make holes and they look horrible.
I wish my mother would have been alive to say, you just made designer pants for me.
Save me $50 a pair, thank you.
But it's true.
When you put a patch on it or you take it off, it makes it worse.
Because you can't really fix it.
And there's a reason why.
Because if you have cotton,
and you've worn it a while, it's already shrunk to its size.
Then you put a new piece of cotton on there and the way they used to do this is they'd take and cut the patch about the size in a hole and they would stitch it.
Sew this brand new cloth on this hole and then after a while be washed and that new piece of cloth would shrink, pull on those stitches and rip the hole bigger.
And Jesus says you can't do that.
But the problem is you can never fix a hole.
You can only cover it up, but you still know what's there.
That's kind of like what God said in the Old Testament.
I'm going to overlook or patch over your sin, but you're going to see the patch.
You're still going to know there's a problem because you don't forget and you still see the cause of everything.
So when Jesus says you put a patch on a
On a new patch on an old garment, you're still going to know there's a hole.
You're still going to know there's a problem.
I understood that.
I could figure that much out, but I didn't understand what's that got to do with me.
And what about this wine?
But let me tell you, before I forget, when I was in Africa, little kids had holy clothes.
They didn't have more clothes to pick from and loose clothing to patch them up with.
They wore what they had because that's all they had.
So little kids would run around in the shorts, most of them were shorts, with holes in them, but at least they had something to wear.
When we gave out T-shirts to the people there, it was sometimes their second or third shirt.
because most of them, they don't have extra.
And there's no way to go make a new piece of cloth like what you have, because there's nothing around, but wilderness and dirt.
And you just can't imagine, they couldn't imagine, well just go to the store and get a patch and put it on their, what's the store?
They don't have those anywhere except in the cities and in the villages and they live out far away.
That's a five mile walk both ways just to get a patch.
No, they're just going to wear the shorts.
So when we bless them with something, it's usually the first one they've had that's new.
Did you know that?
We can't think that way because we don't generally get everything in good.
Well, although sometimes we do and we like yard selling some of them.
But when we want something for church or something really nice, we don't buy used.
They don't have the ability
to buy new all the time and sometimes never.
So they live with what they got.
And so Jesus is saying, when you live with what you got, when you live with the broken, torn up things of your life, you never think about something being new.
You try to fix what you got, but you still know that's all you got.
And so that's kind of how that patch thing works for them as well.
And when you look at the new wine in the new wineskins, if you think about this for a moment, Jesus was talking about, in reference here, the wine wasn't referring to the physical wine.
You understand it was a physical reality that he's talking about, but it had a spiritual connotation.
Question why society is changing so rapidly?
Are you searching for the reasons why?
Join us on the Rise Radio Podcast.
For a journey of discovery, have we wrestled with the latest social narratives, belief systems, ancient prophecies, strange phenomena, and spirituality.
Your worldview will never be the same again.
Rise above the noise.
Visit RiseRadio.net today.
And the way I understood this for a long time was, well, God puts the Holy Spirit into us as new creations.
And I thought, you know, that's plausible.
It sounds right.
But there's a little more to the story than that.
You see, when Jesus says new wine can't go into old wineskins, he's referring to you and me.
He's not referring to some chemical process.
It's also a reference.
to what he was going to instill called Holy Communion.
But there's a whole lot of backstory that they knew which we didn't.
That helps us to understand it.
In communion, Jesus says this is a new covenant in his blood.
When he says new wine, you should think new covenant.
So wine could be blood in that instance.
So in other words,
What he's saying is you don't put his blood into a sin-laden body because it will make his blood unclean.
So he's got to give us a new body to put it in.
So I was kind of had that interpretation for a few years and about a month ago, I was sitting in my office at home having communion with them little cups.
The little, you know, the little portable was about the size of our little communion cups.
and they got the foil top on the juice on the bottom, and then the wafer, and then a plastic top on that, and they're mostly impossible to open.
I was having trouble that.
You know, sometimes you open it, and it spills the juice, and you open it, and you break the bread, and you almost want to use scissors to get the thing open right.
Well, that particular day, I was working on it, and it was one of them stubborn ones, and I peeled it, and I got the juice.
But the wafer's still stuck in that lid part.
And I said, you know, I almost spilled this juice.
I'm going to go ahead and drink it.
So I drank it.
And then I finally got the wafer out in about six, five, six pieces and ate the wafer.
And as I was eating the wafer, I said, God, this feels weird.
I ate it out of order.
I ate the bread last at the cup first.
And I said this, Lord, does it really matter?
Does it really
matter what order you do it and as soon as I said that I got my answer in the verse about the new wine and the new wineskins.
I knew in that moment that the cup that we partake, the one that Jesus blessed and said this is my blood, is the third cup of the Passover meal.
We're going to do a seder meal, not with wine but with
to represent it here on the Wednesday before Easter.
And that cub had a specific purpose and meaning.
There were two other cubs that happened during the meal.
It wasn't one of those.
Now the bread was part of the meal.
Unleavened bread is what he broke and gave to them.
So you understand that you had the bread with the meal and the third cub
which was after the meal is the one he said was his blood.
Now, if it had been the cup during the meal, it wouldn't have been the same symbolic reference.
It's all the same wine that they're drinking from the same source, but the third cup is the cup of the covenant between God and us.
And so it matters in terms of when that cup was shared during that meal.
It isn't so much important as when we partake of it, as long as we understand what that cup symbolizes.
I'll say more about that in a second, but I will say this.
When we partake in Holy Communion, it is a reference to the new wine and new wines given to the patches.
It's a reference to a whole bunch of places in Scripture.
In 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 17, we've quoted this verse a lot.
It's about being made new.
I want to just read it to you rather than quote it, probably because it's in your fill in the blank.
And the other part is I don't want to say it and miss a word.
It says, therefore, if anyone's one is in Christ, he is a new creation.
Old things have passed away.
Behold, all things have become new.
Listen, I'm going to say that again.
If you are in Christ, all things have become new.
Not just some, everything.
And after you have Christ in you, and you wake up in the morning, you walk into the bathroom, you go,
same face thought you said made all things new please understand he's talking about spiritual new you're being remade inside out Paul said this I died daily but I renewed daily inwardly in my spiritual man but on the flesh every day I waste away more and more but in the spirit I'm renewed every day and he tells us that
So when you think about what Paul is saying about Christ making all things new, he's talking about the spiritual reality of who we are in Christ and what's going on there.
The old things have passed away.
When he institutes Holy Communion, this is so, so important.
In Leviticus, in chapter 17,
It's talking about the blood.
When Jesus talks about his blood, when we hear new wine, we need to think the blood.
When we hear about the blood of Christ, we say, okay, it's his blood, okay?
His blood shed for us redeems us.
Why?
Because Leviticus chapter 17 tells us why.
In verse 11, it says, the life of the flesh is in the blood.
And I've given it to you upon the altar,
to make atonement for your souls, for it is the blood that makes atonement for the soul.
He's setting it up that the blood of Christ, something has to die to shed its life blood for redemption, atonement for sin to be made.
Now scripture is real clear.
You can die for your own sin.
And once you shed your life blood, your sin is forgiven.
But it doesn't do any good because you're dead.
So he was saying that there is another way that the blood of Christ, they use the animals back then, but the blood of Christ could make a tumour for our sin as long as he gave his life to do it.
But it had to be ratified by the dead and life blood given up.
So something had to die for us to have redemption.
And not only does it say that in verse 11, listen to this in verse 13 and 14, same chapter of the Leviticus.
Whatever man of the children of Israel or of the strangers, which are Gentiles, which is us, who dwell among you, who hunts and catches any animal or bird that may be eaten, he shall pour out its blood and cover it with dust, not going to eat the blood and animals.
For it, the blood,
is the life of all flesh, its blood sustains its life.
Therefore I said to the children of Israel, you shall not eat the blood of any flesh, for the life of all flesh is its blood, whoever eats that blood will be cut off.
So what's he saying?
He's saying, if you want life, you have to have life blood in you.
If you don't have it, you won't have lifeblood in you.
Well, it kind of makes sense doesn't it?
If you don't have any blood in your body, you're dead.
You've got to have blood.
If you're low on blood, you're getting pretty close to dangerous.
You need to transfuse you.
You need some more blood put in there to restore your life of your body.
You've got to have it.
And the same token blood
without a body doesn't give life it's just a sticky mess so they have to be together to work the body with blood in it for the blood to give it life because the blood may have life in it but it needs a body to quicken and the body needs blood to be quickened by they are interdependent on each other and what happens
when God saw us, he saw the hole in our lives that sin made.
And he said, I tried patching it with the blood animals, but it was still there.
It was just overlooked for a while.
And then the next time you sin, there was again, and the patch was ripped off and it was worse than before.
And so God said, I can't fix that.
I can cover it over and look like it didn't happen.
They call it winking or making atonement, but not forgiving it because you can't get rid of something like that, that way.
Animal blood sacrifices kept him to be redone all the time.
So God didn't want to repair what's broken.
He wanted to make something brand new.
And that's what he chose to do.
And the only way he could do that was to make what was going to be inhabited wholly.
Scripture tells us over and over again, we cannot look on the face of God and live because we are unholy.
So we couldn't dwell in God's presence and God manifests his spirit in us in an unclean body.
It couldn't happen.
And so what we needed was a way to be holy.
A patch doesn't make you holy.
And an animal blood doesn't make you holy.
So we needed something to make it brand new.
St. Corinthians 5, 17, Christ makes all things new.
The old things pass away.
We're talking about the sin and the patch and all that mess fades away because it
is an old covenant that said that shall we say, patchwork gospel up.
I like that phrase and patchwork gospel because that's pretty much what that was.
So what we need is a new place for the Holy Spirit to dwell with the Heavenly Father and His Son Jesus Christ.
It says in John 14, if we love others in the same way
that Christ loved us and keep His commandments.
He and the Heavenly Father will come to us and make His home in us.
So once He does the work of making us new and we follow immediately in doing what He asks us to do, He can live there.
He can reside in you.
that's good news because the old citizens that couldn't happen not in the Old Testament no way because nobody was holy this spirit would be on somebody but never in that's different because of Jesus so here's what happens we needed a new body to house the Holy Spirit and the life blood of Jesus the life is in the blood not in the body
The blood gives the body life, but we needed a new body first.
So the blood could quicken our new body and it needed to be the life blood of Jesus to make our new holy body with holy blood.
Make sense?
So we get a new body for the new wine because you can't put his blood in an old sinful body.
without it being spiritually made new.
The power and holiness of God would destroy our flesh.
So we get this new spiritual body which cannot and does not sin.
Scripture is very clear, it's the flesh that sins, the spirit cannot.
That body, that spiritual body that he gives you gets Jesus' lifeblood.
So the body is first.
Gotta have the body before you can get the blood.
Does the blood without the body does nothing for you.
So this new covenant Jesus says in the cup is poured into a new body.
We become the body of Christ.
That's what he does.
He makes us all his body and guess what's in his body?
His life blood.
And let me tell you something.
And this is so awesome.
When Jesus dies, He gives you His life.
He dies for you.
If I have something and I give it to you as a gift, who's is it?
Isn't it yours?
If I've given it to you?
It's yours, right?
So Jesus says, I'm giving you my body.
Who's is it?
It's yours.
This is my body broken for you.
He gives it to the disciples and said, this is for you.
This is now your body.
And he says afterward, now that you got the body, here's my blood.
I give it to you.
Who is it?
It's ours.
We have his body and his blood because he gave it to us, not because we're apart with him, but he gave it to us.
We own it.
That's incredible, even think that.
But it changes the way we perceive ourselves and the way we see the world and other people in the faith, doesn't it?
We are remolded into something brand new and that required us to have a new spiritual body.
Chameleon then is the outward sign of the actuality
of God's recreating work in us when Christ gives us his body and his blood.
You understand when he dies, it's a gift to you.
And so you own his death and resurrection.
You own it because he gave it to you.
But he gave it to you because you trusted him and would receive it in faith.
During communion, we agree with what Jesus said, and we remember what He did and why.
One of the devotional students, St. Andrews this week said, the mystery of communion is Christ has died, Christ has risen, and Christ will come again.
That's what we said.
In communion, what Jesus says in Corinthians is, this is my body, take any, do this,
Remembering what I did for you.
Remembering what I gave you.
And when we take the cup, he says, this is my blood.
And it's poured out for you for your forgiveness.
It's a new covenant.
It's not the old thing you've been thinking about living your whole life.
This is something you've never experienced before.
Remember what I gave you.
And so every time we take communion, we remember again that we are not who we were.
We are who Christ says we are.
First Corinthians chapter 11 where Paul tells the institution he closes it with this in verse 26 Where as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes But you proclaim that it was given for you and to you He gives himself to you in his death You say well, how does that make sense that?
Then he did that.
Listen, when he told the disciples with this unleavened bread before he died, this is my body.
Was he dead yet?
No.
And he said, this is my blood and a cup poured out for you.
Was he dead yet?
No, it was symbolic.
It was an actuality.
It was about to happen.
And he said, so remember what I've done for you in communion is symbolic for what actually occurred.
So when we partake, it's just like they did because it's not actually Jesus' flesh and blood, it's the spiritual reality of what He does for us and did for us.
And that's why we come to the communion table, thankful and humble and grateful because it was all about Him.
We are new creations in Christ.
We have His lifeblood in us made possible because of His death and resurrection.
You are brand new.
Now you have to learn how to renew your mind to understand your spiritual place and the reality of who you are in Jesus Christ.
And that takes time to learn.
To be deciphered.
The temptation is to believe that this didn't really happen to us as we're just the same as we've always been.
That's the temptation.
And that's why we need communion to remind us.
This is why Jesus said, as often as you do this, remember what I've done for you because you're going to forget.
And you're going to thank you still who you were before I came into your life.
And we need that reminder, don't we?
So what did I learn that day?
I had to have a new body to have the new blood.
So you can't put
new wine and old wine skins.
You need a new wine skin, a new body, the house, the new wine, which is the blood and life of Christ.
And so he gives you both.
That's what that parable is saying.
And he doesn't patchwork you up.
He makes it new.
That is such a blessing in what we celebrate in Holy Communion.
Would you pray with me?
Heavenly Father, thank You for giving us to life in Christ and for forgiving us as You did so.
Lord, we thank You that You knew us, that You love us, that You care for us.
And I ask You to establish us now as we prepare for Holy Communion in the mystery of the faith.
The Christ died, Christ has risen, Christ's will come again, and we are His body and blood to the world around us, filled with who He is.
No matter what we might think or say, the world doesn't understand.
And we're learning to acknowledge what you've done innocent to us.
Amen.
As we prepare for Holy Communion this morning, I ask you to consider that Christ has made you bread now.
And when you've taken, received the bread in a cup, that as you receive that, it's reminding you
what he did in you to you spiritually.
This is an outward sign of an actuality.
That's why we received it humbly because only he could do that.
We could not do anything but make a patchwork mess of our lives.
So he made us brand new.
Thankfully that work is a completed work on the cross.